[Music]
hey many of us think flying is a great
way to travel but things can get dull if
you wind up stuck on the tarmac waiting
for takeoff while you're sitting there
wondering if it would have taken any
longer just to drive you might notice a
little rectangular sticker above your
window now if you've never noticed the
stickers don't think you're just
unobservant only four windows on each
plane are marked this way usually red or
black the decals are just large enough
to spot if you're looking for them
but easy enough to miss if you aren't
but why are they there is it part of a
conspiracy
are those the seats reserved for the
Illuminati members well it turns out the
answer isn't quite so dramatic if you
look closely the next time you're on a
plane you'll realize that the triangles
line up with the front and back edges of
the aircraft's wings this comes in handy
whenever the flight crew needs to check
the wings for ice or to make sure the
flaps are functioning properly
the sticker is there so that the flight
attendants know at a glance which
windows to look through you wouldn't
want them having to climb over a dozen
passengers just to get a decent view
would you flight attendants have a
stressful job that means long hours far
from home
sure free flights to exotic locations
may seem exciting but one night in an
airport hotel isn't exactly a dream
vacation you know planes are filled with
all sorts of little secrets and features
you might not have noticed there like a
giant aluminum where's wally here's five
more aircraft features you might not
have detected number one hidden sleeping
compartments flying is by far the
fastest way to travel but fastest can be
a relative term if you've ever sat
through a 14-hour flight to Australia
you know long-haul doesn't even begin to
cover it even when your flight isn't
that insanely long it might be tempting
to nod off if you're in the air for more
than a few hours the same is true for
pilots and flight attendants and many
airliners feature a hidden compartment
where it's exhausted crew can catch up
on some much-needed sleep
the exact placement of the room varies
but the crew's quarters are usually
found in a small windowless compartment
directly above first class the size and
design can vary wildly from airline to
airline ranging from a single room lined
with bunks to partition sleeping
compartments most features some degree
of soundproofing and basic conveniences
such as mirrors and cabinets a few
higher-end aircraft even come complete
with music players and other
entertainment systems the bunk room is
usually accessible from a narrow
stairway or a ladder directly behind the
aircraft's cockpit and when I call these
rooms hidden
I mean hidden typically the entrance is
concealed behind a panel in the crew
area of the plane but some take
camouflage a step further the Boeing 773
for example hides the hatch by
disguising it as an overhead luggage
compartment talk about a commitment to
secrecy forget what I said earlier are
we sure the Illuminati I had nothing to
do with this larger planes can feature
up to 10 bunks as well as a separate
pilots quarters directly above the
cockpit these planes can be quite a bit
roomier than the flight attendants
quarters some airlines even offer their
pilots amenities such as business class
seats and even a private bathroom talk
about flying in style number two loops
on the wings by the way when you were
looking at those triangles earlier did
you happen to spare a glance out the
window itself if you're flying in a jet
made by Airbus you might have noticed a
pair of little yellow loops sticking up
from the otherwise smooth white surface
of the plane's wing clearly it was put
there for a reason
but what could that reason be well
you're probably aware of those
inflatable slides many airliners are
equipped with they're used to evacuate
quickly in the event of an emergency or
crash landing they also add a bit of fun
to air disasters although that's more of
a side benefit rather than an intended
function the thing is some of the
engineers at Airbus noticed a flaw in
this system a plane's wings need to be
smooth so that they remain Aerodyne
but that makes them pretty difficult to
stand on this is especially true if the
wings are wet either due to rain or
having been forced to make a water
landing nobody wants to escape injury
from a plane crash only to slip on a wet
floor
so something needed to be done their
solution was a brilliant display of
technical ingenuity a rope an emergency
escape rope is secured to the plane on
one end and the forward loop on the
other a second rope would then be
attached to the rear loop and lead back
toward the slide thanks to this fabulous
technological breakthrough evacuating
passengers need not worry about an
unfortunate tumble down the aircraft
swings
number three pulls in the windows well
you were examining the enigma on your
plane's wings did you happen to pay much
attention to the window you were peering
out from look closely at the bottom and
you'll notice a tiny circular hole in
the glass it's pretty small so you might
not have seen it without the circle of
Frost that often forms around it
airliners need to maintain internal
pressure for the passengers to be able
to breathe comfortably at high altitudes
with that in mind a hole in the windows
might seem to be a bit counterproductive
it turns out though the opposite is
actually true
this tiny opening is known as a breather
hole and plays a vital role in keeping
you flying it might not appear so at
first glance but each of the planes
windows is made from three panes of
glass layered on top of each other the
innermost pane is called the scratch
paint and exists mainly to keep
passengers from damaging the other two
the outer layer bears the bulk of the
pressure with the hole being in the
middle plane this creates a small pocket
of air inside the window equalizing the
pressure between the cabin and the space
between the panes this reduces the
amount of pressure the glass is under
drastically reducing the possibility of
failure if only holes made my shirt more
stable I'd have an excuse not to buy new
clothes yeah
I don't know what that means either
number for the hidden handrail while you
were watching the flight attendants in
hopes of spotting their covert naptime's
you might have noticed they often walk
with their hands running along the
bottom of the overhead bins like they're
checking for somebody's gum or something
it might seem like an odd thing to do
but it makes sense once you look closely
at the spot they're holding on to most
airliners flying today feature a
handrail running the length of the
overhead compartments their primary
function is so that the crew can safely
move about the cabin during turbulence
and that's a good thing because if
passengers complain about the flight
attendants not arriving quickly enough
imagine how they'd feel when one
collapses on top of them these handrails
also provide an alternative to grabbing
someone else's seat when you have to get
up to use the restroom
coach is cramped enough without
someone's fingers materializing behind
my head excuse me
speaking of limited rope our next entry
might just offer you a bit of help with
that number five a button to adjust your
armrests the most common complaint
people have with air travel is the lack
of space even if you aren't particularly
tall you've probably experienced this
for yourself if you are particularly
tall then get ready to be constantly
bumping your knees on the tray table and
banging your shins on the chair in front
of you so what can you do about this
shortage of legroom well that depends on
where you're sitting if you're in the
window seat you'll just have to accept
the breathtaking view as a consolation
prize if you're in the middle seat well
you're just going to have to deal with
getting the worst of both worlds
that's right middle seat passengers
you're the lucky winners of no view no
room and having people brush past you
whenever they need to get up Hey look on
the bright side as we try to do here you
just need to lose your luggage and have
your wallet stolen in the terminal to
get a full row of bad flight bingo
congratulations however if you're in the
aisle seat I've got some good news for
you
you know that uncomfortable little
armrest of yours that little bit of
plastic that digs into your side and
keeps you from moving your legs freely
you probably assumed that it was never
intended to be moved and getting it out
of your way would take some serious work
with a wrench and screwdriver it turns
out that's not the case
feel around on the bottom of the armrest
and you'll find a little button near the
hinge press it and you're free to move
that pesky armrest out of your way this
gives you plenty of room to move around
and is a big help when you're trying to
get your bag from the overhead
compartment at the end of your flight so
are there any special features I missed
in our little rundown of airline secrets
let me know in the comments and hey if
you learned something new today then
give the video a like and share it with
a friend and here are some other videos
I think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life